README.md, before:

# 👋 Hi, I'm Prashant Ambati

<div align="center">
  <img src="https://readme-typing-svg.herokuapp.com?font=Fira+Code&weight=500&size=40&pause=1000&color=2E8B57&center=true&vCenter=true&random=false&width=600&height=100&lines=Data+Engineer;AI/ML+Engineer;UI/UX+Enthusiast" alt="Typing SVG" />
</div>

## 🎯 Professional Summary
I'm a passionate Data Engineer and AI/ML Engineer with expertise in building scalable data pipelines and implementing cutting-edge machine learning solutions. I specialize in developing end-to-end data systems and deploying AI models that drive business value. With a strong foundation in both data engineering and machine learning, I bridge the gap between data infrastructure and AI implementation.

## 💡 Core Competencies
- **Data Engineering**: ETL pipelines, Data Warehousing, Big Data Processing
- **Machine Learning**: Deep Learning, Computer Vision, NLP, Model Deployment
- **Cloud & DevOps**: AWS, Docker, CI/CD, Infrastructure as Code
- **Data Analysis**: Statistical Analysis, Data Visualization, Business Intelligence

## 🛠️ Tech Stack
<div align="center">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3776AB?style=for-the-badge&logo=python&logoColor=white" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/TensorFlow-FF6F00?style=for-the-badge&logo=tensorflow&logoColor=white" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/PyTorch-EE4C2C?style=for-the-badge&logo=pytorch&logoColor=white" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Apache_Spark-E25A1C?style=for-the-badge&logo=apachespark&logoColor=white" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/FastAPI-009688?style=for-the-badge&logo=fastapi&logoColor=white" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Docker-2496ED?style=for-the-badge&logo=docker&logoColor=white" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/AWS-232F3E?style=for-the-badge&logo=amazon-aws&logoColor=white" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/SQL-4479A1?style=for-the-badge&logo=mysql&logoColor=white" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Airflow-017CEE?style=for-the-badge&logo=apache-airflow&logoColor=white" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Kubernetes-326CE5?style=for-the-badge&logo=kubernetes&logoColor=white" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Git-F05032?style=for-the-badge&logo=git&logoColor=white" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Scikit_Learn-F7931E?style=for-the-badge&logo=scikit-learn&logoColor=white" />
</div>

## 🏆 Achievements 
- **Technical Achievements**:
  - Developed and deployed 5+ production-grade ML models
  - Built scalable data pipelines processing 10GB+ daily
  - Reduced model inference time by 60% through optimization
  - Implemented automated CI/CD pipelines for ML model deployment

## 🌟 Featured Projects

### 🤖 [CropX](https://github.com/Prashant-ambati/CropX)
<div align="center">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3776AB?style=flat-square&logo=python&logoColor=white" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/TensorFlow-FF6F00?style=flat-square&logo=tensorflow&logoColor=white" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/FastAPI-009688?style=flat-square&logo=fastapi&logoColor=white" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Docker-2496ED?style=flat-square&logo=docker&logoColor=white" />
</div>

A sophisticated deep learning crop recommendation system that provides personalized crop recommendations based on soil conditions and environmental factors.
- Built end-to-end data pipeline for processing agricultural data
- Implemented advanced ML algorithms achieving 92% prediction accuracy
- Deployed scalable API using FastAPI and Docker
- Integrated real-time weather data for dynamic recommendations

### 🧠 [AlexNet-CNN](https://github.com/Prashant-ambati/alexnet-CNN)
<div align="center">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/PyTorch-EE4C2C?style=flat-square&logo=pytorch&logoColor=white" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/AWS-232F3E?style=flat-square&logo=amazon-aws&logoColor=white" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Docker-2496ED?style=flat-square&logo=docker&logoColor=white" />
</div>

Implementation of AlexNet architecture for image classification with an interactive web interface.
- Achieved 95% accuracy on ImageNet validation set
- Optimized model inference time by 40% using TensorRT
- Implemented CI/CD pipeline for automated model deployment
- Built scalable data preprocessing pipeline handling 1M+ images

### 🎯 [LLaVA Implementation](https://github.com/Prashant-ambati/llava-implementation)
<div align="center">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/PyTorch-EE4C2C?style=flat-square&logo=pytorch&logoColor=white" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/HuggingFace-FF6F00?style=flat-square&logo=huggingface&logoColor=white" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/AWS-232F3E?style=flat-square&logo=amazon-aws&logoColor=white" />
</div>

Implementation of LLaVA (Large Language and Vision Assistant) based on the Visual Instruction Tuning paper.
- Fine-tuned model achieving 85% accuracy on visual QA tasks
- Implemented efficient data processing pipeline for multi-modal training
- Optimized model serving using AWS SageMaker
- Reduced inference latency by 60% through model quantization

### 📊 [COVID Economic Analysis](https://github.com/Prashant-ambati/covid-economic-analysis)
<div align="center">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3776AB?style=flat-square&logo=python&logoColor=white" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Pandas-150458?style=flat-square&logo=pandas&logoColor=white" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Tableau-E97627?style=flat-square&logo=tableau&logoColor=white" />
</div>

Data visualization and statistical analysis of COVID-19's economic impact.
- Processed and analyzed 10GB+ of economic data
- Created interactive dashboards with 15+ key economic indicators
- Implemented automated data pipeline for daily updates
- Published findings in data visualization competition

### 🎙️ [Transcriptocast](https://github.com/Prashant-ambati/transcriptocast)
<div align="center">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/FastAPI-009688?style=flat-square&logo=fastapi&logoColor=white" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/HuggingFace-FF6F00?style=flat-square&logo=huggingface&logoColor=white" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Docker-2496ED?style=flat-square&logo=docker&logoColor=white" />
</div>

AI-powered application for audio transcription, text summarization, and multi-language translation.
- Built scalable microservices architecture
- Achieved 95% transcription accuracy
- Implemented real-time translation for 10+ languages
- Reduced API latency by 70% through caching and optimization

## 🤝 Connect With Me
<div align="center">
  <a href="https://linkedin.com/in/prashant-ambati-a9b030229">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/LinkedIn-0077B5?style=for-the-badge&logo=linkedin&logoColor=white" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://github.com/Prashant-ambati">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/GitHub-100000?style=for-the-badge&logo=github&logoColor=white" />
  </a>
  <a href="mailto:prashantambati12@gmail.com">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Email-D14836?style=for-the-badge&logo=gmail&logoColor=white" />
  </a>
  <a href="[https://twitter.com/your_handle](https://x.com/PrashantAmbati)">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Twitter-1DA1F2?style=for-the-badge&logo=twitter&logoColor=white" />
  </a>
</div>

---
<div align="center">
  <img src="https://komarev.com/ghpvc/?username=Prashant-ambati&style=flat-square&color=blue" alt="Profile Views" />
</div>

Commit message:

Add iOS development projects section featuring NeuroPulse

README.md, after:

# 👋 Hi, I'm Prashant Ambati

<div align="center">
  <img src="https://readme-typing-svg.herokuapp.com?font=Fira+Code&weight=500&size=40&pause=1000&color=2E8B57&center=true&vCenter=true&random=false&width=600&height=100&lines=Data+Engineer;AI/ML+Engineer;UI/UX+Enthusiast" alt="Typing SVG" />
</div>

## 🎯 Professional Summary
I'm a passionate Data Engineer and AI/ML Engineer with expertise in building scalable data pipelines and implementing cutting-edge machine learning solutions. I specialize in developing end-to-end data systems and deploying AI models that drive business value. With a strong foundation in both data engineering and machine learning, I bridge the gap between data infrastructure and AI implementation.

## 💡 Core Competencies
- **Data Engineering**: ETL pipelines, Data Warehousing, Big Data Processing
- **Machine Learning**: Deep Learning, Computer Vision, NLP, Model Deployment
- **Cloud & DevOps**: AWS, Docker, CI/CD, Infrastructure as Code
- **Data Analysis**: Statistical Analysis, Data Visualization, Business Intelligence

## 🛠️ Tech Stack
<div align="center">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3776AB?style=for-the-badge&logo=python&logoColor=white" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/TensorFlow-FF6F00?style=for-the-badge&logo=tensorflow&logoColor=white" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/PyTorch-EE4C2C?style=for-the-badge&logo=pytorch&logoColor=white" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Apache_Spark-E25A1C?style=for-the-badge&logo=apachespark&logoColor=white" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/FastAPI-009688?style=for-the-badge&logo=fastapi&logoColor=white" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Docker-2496ED?style=for-the-badge&logo=docker&logoColor=white" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/AWS-232F3E?style=for-the-badge&logo=amazon-aws&logoColor=white" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/SQL-4479A1?style=for-the-badge&logo=mysql&logoColor=white" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Airflow-017CEE?style=for-the-badge&logo=apache-airflow&logoColor=white" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Kubernetes-326CE5?style=for-the-badge&logo=kubernetes&logoColor=white" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Git-F05032?style=for-the-badge&logo=git&logoColor=white" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Scikit_Learn-F7931E?style=for-the-badge&logo=scikit-learn&logoColor=white" />
</div>

## 🏆 Achievements 
- **Technical Achievements**:
  - Developed and deployed 5+ production-grade ML models
  - Built scalable data pipelines processing 10GB+ daily
  - Reduced model inference time by 60% through optimization
  - Implemented automated CI/CD pipelines for ML model deployment

## 🌟 Featured Projects

### 🤖 [CropX](https://github.com/Prashant-ambati/CropX)
<div align="center">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3776AB?style=flat-square&logo=python&logoColor=white" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/TensorFlow-FF6F00?style=flat-square&logo=tensorflow&logoColor=white" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/FastAPI-009688?style=flat-square&logo=fastapi&logoColor=white" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Docker-2496ED?style=flat-square&logo=docker&logoColor=white" />
</div>

A sophisticated deep learning crop recommendation system that provides personalized crop recommendations based on soil conditions and environmental factors.
- Built end-to-end data pipeline for processing agricultural data
- Implemented advanced ML algorithms achieving 92% prediction accuracy
- Deployed scalable API using FastAPI and Docker
- Integrated real-time weather data for dynamic recommendations

### 🧠 [AlexNet-CNN](https://github.com/Prashant-ambati/alexnet-CNN)
<div align="center">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/PyTorch-EE4C2C?style=flat-square&logo=pytorch&logoColor=white" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/AWS-232F3E?style=flat-square&logo=amazon-aws&logoColor=white" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Docker-2496ED?style=flat-square&logo=docker&logoColor=white" />
</div>

Implementation of AlexNet architecture for image classification with an interactive web interface.
- Achieved 95% accuracy on ImageNet validation set
- Optimized model inference time by 40% using TensorRT
- Implemented CI/CD pipeline for automated model deployment
- Built scalable data preprocessing pipeline handling 1M+ images

### 🎯 [LLaVA Implementation](https://github.com/Prashant-ambati/llava-implementation)
<div align="center">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/PyTorch-EE4C2C?style=flat-square&logo=pytorch&logoColor=white" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/HuggingFace-FF6F00?style=flat-square&logo=huggingface&logoColor=white" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/AWS-232F3E?style=flat-square&logo=amazon-aws&logoColor=white" />
</div>

Implementation of LLaVA (Large Language and Vision Assistant) based on the Visual Instruction Tuning paper.
- Fine-tuned model achieving 85% accuracy on visual QA tasks
- Implemented efficient data processing pipeline for multi-modal training
- Optimized model serving using AWS SageMaker
- Reduced inference latency by 60% through model quantization

### 📊 [COVID Economic Analysis](https://github.com/Prashant-ambati/covid-economic-analysis)
<div align="center">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3776AB?style=flat-square&logo=python&logoColor=white" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Pandas-150458?style=flat-square&logo=pandas&logoColor=white" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Tableau-E97627?style=flat-square&logo=tableau&logoColor=white" />
</div>

Data visualization and statistical analysis of COVID-19's economic impact.
- Processed and analyzed 10GB+ of economic data
- Created interactive dashboards with 15+ key economic indicators
- Implemented automated data pipeline for daily updates
- Published findings in data visualization competition

### 🎙️ [Transcriptocast](https://github.com/Prashant-ambati/transcriptocast)
<div align="center">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/FastAPI-009688?style=flat-square&logo=fastapi&logoColor=white" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/HuggingFace-FF6F00?style=flat-square&logo=huggingface&logoColor=white" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Docker-2496ED?style=flat-square&logo=docker&logoColor=white" />
</div>

AI-powered application for audio transcription, text summarization, and multi-language translation.
- Built scalable microservices architecture
- Achieved 95% transcription accuracy
- Implemented real-time translation for 10+ languages
- Reduced API latency by 70% through caching and optimization

## 📱 iOS Development Projects

### NeuroPulse
[NeuroPulse GitHub Repository](https://github.com/Prashant-ambati/Neuropulse)

A fully on-device, AI-powered focus and energy tracker for iOS 18+ (iOS 26 guidelines). NeuroPulse leverages the latest Apple technologies:
- AppIntents, Widgets, Live Activities, and on-device CoreML
- Privacy-first: all data is local, no network/cloud
- Adaptive SwiftUI 6.0 design, accessibility, and HealthKit integration
- Modern architecture and code organization

*Explore the code and architecture in the [NeuroPulse repository](https://github.com/Prashant-ambati/Neuropulse).* 

## 🤝 Connect With Me
<div align="center">
  <a href="https://linkedin.com/in/prashant-ambati-a9b030229">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/LinkedIn-0077B5?style=for-the-badge&logo=linkedin&logoColor=white" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://github.com/Prashant-ambati">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/GitHub-100000?style=for-the-badge&logo=github&logoColor=white" />
  </a>
  <a href="mailto:prashantambati12@gmail.com">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Email-D14836?style=for-the-badge&logo=gmail&logoColor=white" />
  </a>
  <a href="[https://twitter.com/your_handle](https://x.com/PrashantAmbati)">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Twitter-1DA1F2?style=for-the-badge&logo=twitter&logoColor=white" />
  </a>
</div>

---
<div align="center">
  <img src="https://komarev.com/ghpvc/?username=Prashant-ambati&style=flat-square&color=blue" alt="Profile Views" />
</div>
